alliesw/Usable-Private-5G-Networks

1. Establish Use Case 
2. Build network model to support use case 
3. Acquire Spectrum to operate 

To deliver cellular connectivity/build a cellular network for private network use cases, one must
first obtain a licensed spectrum to operate.  

CBRS offers three tiers of licensing that provide users access to a 150 megahertz band of spectrum - operating within the 3,550 MHz
to 3,700 MHz range. I will focus on the free licensing tier, as this is the most practical/financially viable option for enterprise use. 
> The General Authorized Access Tier of CBRS licenses is available to any user for free - enabling enterprises to acquire the spectrum 
needed to build their own 5G cellular networks for private use.




Network slicing approaches for offering & delivery 5G networks:

(1) Standalone private 5G networks: slicing is used to customize the behavior for different use cases/traffic types and to provide isolation between them.

(2) Virtual private 5G networks: slicing is used to meet customization and isolation needs per use case/traffic type as well as per enterprise customer.

(3) Hybrid private 5G networks: slicing is used to customize and isolate slices per enterprise customer and use case/traffic type. The hybrid approach enables a more flexible distribution of functionality, more efficient use of infrastructure and improved mobility in and out of the customer premises.
Hybrid 5G Networks
- Use Case: Customize and isolate slices per enterprise customer and use case/traffic type at an airport  
- Deployment Methods: Integrating a company's on-premises hardware with the public 5G infrastructure services

Virtual 5G Networks
- Use Case: CV2X - Automated connected-vehicle services (Cellular vehicle-to-everything) to enable communication between vehicles, as well as the public infrasture it's shared with 
- Deployment Methods: On top of an infrastructure layer that is shared with public services

Standalone 5G Networks
- Use Case: solution is deployed or provided as a managed service at a customers premises (airports, etc)
- Deployment Methods: Fully independent & on-premise deployment (independent from the public 5G Infrastructure)  

Different ways of composing private 5G networks (network slices)
Cloud deployment -

RAN

CORE

Transport
- Traffic flows from one network slice (or a group of them) should be mapped into transport resources that match the required Service Level Agreement (SLA) for the slice or group of slices.

QoS mechanisms, IP ranges

Operations support systems/business support systems
